So let's delete those hard-coded Todos here.
And now let's say we get some props here.
And now my goal is that the props should have items
or Todos prop, where I can then map
through all those items to then output the list items.
And you can already see here
that now I'm getting those red squiggly lines here.
And if we hover over that, we see that prompts is declared
but it's value is never read.
So we're getting a warning that we're not using props
and that's a little extra help
we get into TypeScript project
which we don't necessarily get
in a vanilla JavaScript project.
We are warned if we have some unnecessary code,
code that we're not using.
And we also get this warning
that the parameter props is implicitly of` type any.
And that means that we did not assign a type here.
We're not making it clear which kind of type disease
and therefore we're basically not getting
any TypeScript support.
And that's why you can configure TypeScript
such that it warns you if you are implicitly using any.
If I now explicitly set this to type any, it would be okay.
I'm now explicitly saying I don't have any more
specific information about this props argument;
it is of type any.
It could be anything and that's then fine.
But if you don't set this type explicitly,
you are implicitly assuming
that you don't know anything about that type
and that's why TypeScript is warning us here.
We shouldn't make this implicit assumption.
By the way you can configure the strictness
of TypeScript here in the tsconfig.json file.
But I'll come back to that a little bit later.
For the moment what we need to do here
is we need to make it clear
which kind of props we're getting here,
what the type of props in this function should be.
And of course, we can do this with a type assignment here.
And now we could actually say that props is an object type.
So we add those curly braces.
And again, that's not a value here,
that's a type definition.
It's an object type
and we know that props in React will always be an object
with all the attributes we added on our own element here
in App.tsx as key value pairs.
So here we could say
that we expect to get some Todos or some items
and then in turn could be an array of strings,
let's say like this.
That's how we could say that props is an object
with the items key,
which then itself holds an array of strings as a value.
But that would actually not be 100% correct.
Props does not just have the key value pairs.
we added on our component when we use it in JSX.
Instead, props is an object
which does have those key value pairs.
But remember that they're also always as a special prop,
the children prop
and we don't even know the type of that yet.
Now we could find out which type that should be
and then added like this
but it would quickly become cumbersome
if for every component that we're defining
that is using props,
we have to always add those built-in props to that object
and then also our custom props.
And because that's cumbersome,
and because we have that base prop object
which we get an every component,
which for example includes this children prop,
React gives us a different way here
or React and TypeScript gives us a different way here.
We can use such a generic type, which you might remember.
We can use such a generic type or to be precise,
a functional component out of the box
can be turned, can be converted into a generic function.
Which then simply means that in the end
our functional component will be configured
such that we make it clear
that it will be our React component function
and that it will have all those base props like children.
And we can then define explicitly our own props
like the items prop, for example, here
that should be combined into the props object.
And if that's not 100% clear yet,
I'll show you how it works.
We can actually write this a little bit differently
and use this arrow function syntax
which we used throughout this course all the time.
So that our Todos constant here
holds this React component function.
And now we can assign a type here to this Todos constant.
And the type here should actually be React
for which we need to import React
from React like this, dot FC.
Now that's a type defined in this React package
or to be precise by this typesreact package
but we can just import React from React
and the rest will be done behind the scenes.
So this is a type definition here.
Now, if I hold Cmd and click on this
or Ctrl and click on this, I see the type definition here.
And I see that it's a function component
which is yet another type definition built
into this React package.
Now what React.FC in the end does as a type definition
is it makes it clear that this here is a function
that acts as a functional component.
That's what FC stands for functional component.
And you see that now the red squiggly lines for props
are gone.
And if I now try to use props here in my JSX code
and I add a dot, I see that I now get this auto-completion
for the children props.
So now, simply by adding this type annotation
in TypeScript and my IDE therefore,
which is very smart about that,
understands that this is a function
that receives a props object
as an argument, as a first argument,
which will be an object that always has a children property,
a children field.
And it understands does it knows this
because of this type assignment here.
Now I mentioned that generic types would be important
because this is actually a generic type
and we can now merge our own type definition
for it as props object.
So our own props, this functional component we'll get
with those built-in based props like the children prop.
And for this, we add angled brackets or after FC here.
And then between those angle brackets
we define our own props.
Now, when we use angle brackets here,
we actually use them slightly differently
than we did before when I introduced you to generic types.
There we used angle brackets
to create our own generic function
that has this generic type parameter
if you want to call it like this,
this generic type T here,
which then could be used inside of the function,
and which in the example I gave you then was inferred
by TypeScript when we used that generic function.
Here we're using it slightly differently.
Here, React.FC already is a generic type.
It describes a type defined by the React package
that is actually generic.
So that's type internally is also defined
with those angle brackets.
And here, when I also add angled brackets in our code,
I'm not setting up a new generic type
with some placeholder type T,
but I'm plugging in a concrete value
for that internally used generic type
before that type T defined by that React.FC type.
And I'm doing that here because here
we can't let TypeScript infer that generic type
as it did it in the example I showed you before.
We can't let TypeScript infer the type here
because here we're not calling some generic function
with some parameters where the values then could be used
for the inference,
but instead we're defining a function
and we want to let TypeScript know
how it should then treat this function internally
that it should get some props to find by us
and merge those with some base props like the children prop
which all functional components have.
And what you see here, therefore, is the other side
of generic types that you use a generic type
and you explicitly set the concrete type that should be used
for this usage of this generic FC type.
Here, I'm saying this FC type is generic
and the concrete value I'm plugging in now
is my own props object where I describe my own props
for this specific functional component.
And it's generic because different functional components
have different props definitions.
And that's how we do that with React and TypeScript here,
how we can also use this generic types feature.
Now this angle brackets index
is the generic type syntax here,
and by adding it here, we actually unlock a feature
built into this FC type, which we're using here,
which we'll merge, whichever object type we're defining here
with that base object type, with the children property.
And here we could then say
that we want to have items which has an array of strings.
And what this does now is that here, if I, again
type props dot, it still knows
that there will be a children property
at least that there could be a children property.
But that we now also have this items property
which will be a string array.
And it knows that because we now merge
our own prop object definition
with that base prop object definition.
And that might all sound super complex
but it's just sounding like this because I'm explaining
that behind the scenes stuff here.
In the end, using it as super simple,
you build functional components with React and TypeScript
by using this React.FC type here
on your functional component constant here,
and then you use those angle brackets.
And between those angle brackets,
you define your own props
your own prop object type
if your component gets some custom props
and then in the component, you can use those custom props.
And here we can then use props items, use map,
and we get auto-completion here for this array method
because TypeScript knows that items will be an array
because here we defined that it will be an array.
And we can then map all our items and turn every item
into a list item here where I output item
and where I set the key equal to item.
So for the moment my key will just be the string
inside of this items array.
And now I'll reformat that, and that's not as finished
Todos component with proper type notation.
Now, the great thing about using TypeScript with React
is now not just that this is now more descriptive
and we get the auto-completion here
when we work inside of this component,
though that's already pretty good.
But then now you also see we have an error in App.tsx
Because of our type annotations,
React now understands
or this project set up to be precise,
now understands that we're using this Todos component
in an incorrect way.
Because I making it clear here,
in this type definition of the Todos component
that this component will have an items prop
and this is not an optional prop.
We could make it optional by adding a question mark here
but then here, we need to handle the case
that we don't necessarily have items.
But here it's also not optional at all,
and therefore we have to add it here.
And that's another strong reason for using TypeScript.
We can now really describe the shape of our components
and which props they need
and therefore using our components incorrectly.
And for example, not passing in all the props
that component needs is pretty much impossible
because we get errors like this directly in the IDE now.
So here I can now add my items and for the moment,
just add some dummy Todos here,
like learn React and learn TypeScript,
we format this,
and now all errors are gone.
And we now see that output again,
but now thanks to our props
and those props now work properly.
Thanks to our type annotations.
And I did spend a lot of times
talking about this type annotation,
but I hope it's clear how it works
and even more importantly,
it's clear how you use it.
And as you see using it is super simple.
It's this type annotation, which you want to add
to every custom component you're building.
And then if you are using your own props,
you add this generic type
and you describe your props
between those angle brackets.